# fallbackfonts

This [lite](https://github.com/rxi/lite) plugin provides a system to load multiple fonts to render different glyphs.
As an example, you may specify a CJK-compatible font as fallback to render CJK characters.

> This plugin only covers basic codepoints from U+0000 to U+FFFF, other codepoints are not and will not be supported. This is sufficient for most use cases.

### Get this plugin
From [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/takase1121/lite-fallback-fonts/actions)

### Installation
1. Clone the repository
2. run `./build.sh` (Similiar to [lite](https://github.com/rxi/lite))
3. mkdir `data/plugins/fallbackfonts`
4. copy `utfhelper.lua`, `init.lua` and executable generated by `./build.sh` to that folder


### Configuration
This plugin introduces a table `config.fallback_fonts` that can be set in `data/user/init.lua`.
```lua
config.fallback_fonts.enable = false
config.fallback_fonts.preload_range = { lower = 0, upper = 0xFF }
config.fallback_fonts.fontmap_file = path(PLUGINDIR .. "/fontmap.bin")
config.fallback_fonts.fonts = {
  { path = path(EXEDIR .. "/data/fonts/monospace.ttf"), size = 13.5 },
}
```

key | Usage
----|------
`config.fallback_fonts.enable` |Self explanatory
`config.fallback_fonts.preload_range` | The range of fontmap loaded when lite starts. Defaults to the first 256 characters
`config.fallback_fonts.fontmap_file` | Where to store the fontmap file.
`config.fallback_fonts.fonts` | Table of fonts. Must contain `path` (path to font file) and either `size` (size in pt) or `pixel_size` (size in pixels). The plugin tries the fonts from the end of table to the start; the first font is the fallback.


### Usage
- On first launch, you will be prompted to generate a fontmap. Generate it.
> **Make sure you don't generate fontmap on multiple lite instances - that will most likely corrupt the fontmap.**
- You are good to go.

### Known issues
- ~~Caret and selection don't work. I may consider working on them but it won't be that easy.~~ fixed.
- ~~IME selection box does not show up. This is a bug from lite and should be worked on there instead.~~ A bug with SDL2.
- ~~Anything related to mouse does not work correctly.~~ fixed.
- The caret just doesn't want to work properly with multi-byte sequences. It just doesn't like it. I need help fixing this.